<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Poems on Various Subjects Religious and Moral</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="to-meacenas" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Maecenas</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Maecenas, you, beneath the myrtle shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Read o’er what poets sung, and shepherds play’d.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What felt those poets but you feel the same?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Does not your soul possess the sacred flame?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their noble strains your equal genius shares</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In softer language, and diviner airs.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">While Homer paints, lo! circumfus’d in air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Celestial Gods in mortal forms appear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swift as they move hear each recess rebound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heav’n quakes, earth trembles, and the shores resound.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great Sire of verse, before my mortal eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lightnings blaze across the vaulted skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, as the thunder shakes the heav’nly plains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A deep felt horror thrills through all my veins.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When gentler strains demand thy graceful song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The length’ning line moves languishing along.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When great Patroclus courts Achilles’ aid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The grateful tribute of my tears is paid;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Prone on the shore he feels the pangs of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stern Pelides tend’rest passions move.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Great Maro’s strain in heav’nly numbers flows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Nine inspire, and all the bosom glows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O could I rival thine and Virgil’s page,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or claim the Muses with the Mantuan Sage;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon the same beauties should my mind adorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the same ardors in my soul should burn:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then should my song in bolder notes arise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all my numbers pleasingly surprise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But here I sit, and mourn a grov’ling mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That fain would mount, and ride upon the wind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Not you, my friend, these plaintive strains become,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not you, whose bosom is the Muses home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they from tow’ring Helicon retire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They fan in you the bright immortal fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I less happy, cannot raise the song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fault’ring music dies upon my tongue.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The happier Terence<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" epub:type="noteref">1</a> all the choir inspir’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His soul replenish’d, and his bosom fir’d;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But say, ye Muses, why this partial grace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To one alone of Afric’s sable race;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From age to age transmitting thus his name</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the first glory in the rolls of fame?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Thy virtues, great Maecenas! shall be sung</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In praise of him, from whom those virtues sprung:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While blooming wreaths around thy temples spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll snatch a laurel from thine honour’d head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While you indulgent smile upon the deed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">As long as Thames in streams majestic flows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or Naiads in their oozy beds repose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While Phoebus reigns above the starry train,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While bright Aurora purples o’er the main,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So long, great Sir, the muse thy praise shall sing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So long thy praise shall make Parnassus ring:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then grant, Maecenas, thy paternal rays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hear me propitious, and defend my lays.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-virtue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On Virtue</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O Thou bright jewel in my aim I strive</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To comprehend thee. Thine own words declare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wisdom is higher than a fool can reach.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I cease to wonder, and no more attempt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thine height t’ explore, or fathom thy profound.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, O my soul, sink not into despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Virtue is near thee, and with gentle hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would now embrace thee, hovers o’er thine head.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fain would the heav’n-born soul with her converse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then seek, then court her for her promis’d bliss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Auspicious queen, thine heav’nly pinions spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lead celestial Chastity along;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lo! now her sacred retinue descends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Array’d in glory from the orbs above.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Attend me, Virtue, thro’ my youthful years!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O leave me not to the false joys of time!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But guide my steps to endless life and bliss.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Greatness, or Goodness, say what I shall call thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To give me an higher appellation still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Teach me a better strain, a nobler lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O thou, enthron’d with Cherubs in the realms of day!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-university-of-cambridge-in-new-england" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the University of Cambridge, in New-England</h2>
			<p>
				<span>While an intrinsic ardor prompts to write,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The muses promise to assist my pen;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas not long since I left my native shore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The land of errors, and Egyptian gloom:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Father of mercy, ’twas thy gracious hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brought me in safety from those dark abodes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Students, to you ’tis giv’n to scan the heights</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above, to traverse the ethereal space,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mark the systems of revolving worlds.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still more, ye sons of science ye receive</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The blissful news by messengers from heav’n,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How Jesus’ blood for your redemption flows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See him with hands out-stretcht upon the cross;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Immense compassion in his bosom glows;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He hears revilers, nor resents their scorn:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What matchless mercy in the Son of God!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the whole human race by sin had fall’n,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He deign’d to die that they might rise again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And share with him in the sublimest skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life without death, and glory without end.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Improve your privileges while they stay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye pupils, and each hour redeem, that bears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or good or bad report of you to heav’n.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let sin, that baneful evil to the soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By you be shun’d, nor once remit your guard;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Suppress the deadly serpent in its egg.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye blooming plants of human race divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An Ethiop tells you ’tis your greatest foe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its transient sweetness turns to endless pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in immense perdition sinks the soul.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-kings-most-excellent-majesty-1768" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the King’s Most Excellent Majesty. 1768</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Your subjects hope, dread Sire⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The crown upon your brows may flourish long,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that your arm may in your God be strong!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O may your sceptre num’rous nations sway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all with love and readiness obey!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">But how shall we the British king reward!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rule thou in peace, our father, and our lord!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Midst the remembrance of thy favours past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The meanest peasants most admire the last.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>May George, beloved by all the nations round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Live with heav’ns choicest constant blessings crown’d!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great God, direct, and guard him from on high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from his head let ev’ry evil fly!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And may each clime with equal gladness see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A monarch’s smile can set his subjects free!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-being-brought-from-africa-to-america" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On Being Brought from Africa to America</h2>
			<p>
				<span>’Twas mercy brought me from my Pagan land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Taught my benighted soul to understand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That there’s a God, that there’s a Saviour too:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once I redemption neither sought nor knew.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some view our sable race with scornful eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Their colour is a diabolic die.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember, Christians, Negroes, black as Cain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May be refin’d, and join th’ angelic train.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-the-death-of-the-rev-dr-sewell-1769" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On the Death of the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Sewell. 1769</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ere yet the morn its lovely blushes spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See Sewell number’d with the happy dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hail, holy man, arriv’d th’ immortal shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though we shall hear thy warning voice no more.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come, let us all behold with wishful eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The saint ascending to his native skies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From hence the prophet wing’d his rapt’rous way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the blest mansions in eternal day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then begging for the Spirit of our God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And panting eager for the same abode,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come, let us all with the same vigour rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And take a prospect of the blissful skies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While on our minds Christ’s image is imprest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the dear Saviour glows in ev’ry breast.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thrice happy saint! to find thy heav’n at last,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What compensation for the evils past!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Great God, incomprehensible, unknown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By sense, we bow at thine exalted throne.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, while we beg thine excellence to feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sacred Spirit to our hearts reveal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And give us of that mercy to partake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which thou hast promis’d for the Saviour’s sake!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Sewell is dead.” Swift-pinion’d Fame thus cry’d.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Is Sewell dead,” my trembling tongue reply’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O what a blessing in his flight deny’d!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How oft for us the holy prophet pray’d!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How oft to us the Word of Life convey’d!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By duty urg’d my mournful verse to close,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I for his tomb this epitaph compose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Lo, here a man, redeem’d by Jesus’ blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“A sinner once, but now a saint with God;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Behold ye rich, ye poor, ye fools, ye wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Not let his monument your heart surprise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“ ’Twill tell you what this holy man has done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Which gives him brighter lustre than the sun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Listen, ye happy, from your seats above.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I speak sincerely, while I speak and love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“He sought the paths of piety and truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“By these made happy from his early youth!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“In blooming years that grace divine he felt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Which rescues sinners from the chains of guilt.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Mourn him, ye indigent, whom he has fed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And henceforth seek, like him, for living bread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Ev’n Christ, the bread descending from above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And ask an int’rest in his saving love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Mourn him, ye youth, to whom he oft has told</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“God’s gracious wonders from the times of old.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I, too have cause this mighty loss to mourn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“For he my monitor will not return.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“O when shall we to his blest state arrive?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“When the same graces in our bosoms thrive.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-the-death-of-the-rev-mr-george-whitefield-1770" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On the Death of the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> <abbr>Mr.</abbr> George Whitefield. 1770</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Hail, happy saint, on thine immortal throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Possest of glory, life, and bliss unknown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We hear no more the music of thy tongue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy wonted auditories cease to throng.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sermons in unequall’d accents flow’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ev’ry bosom with devotion glow’d;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou didst in strains of eloquence refin’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inflame the heart, and captivate the mind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unhappy we the setting sun deplore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So glorious once, but ah! it shines no more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Behold the prophet in his tow’ring flight!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He leaves the earth for heav’n’s unmeasur’d height,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And worlds unknown receive him from our sight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There Whitefield wings with rapid course his way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sails to Zion through vast seas of day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy pray’rs, great saint, and thine incessant cries</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have pierc’d the bosom of thy native skies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou moon hast seen, and all the stars of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How he has wrestled with his God by night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He pray’d that grace in ev’ry heart might dwell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He long’d to see America excel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He charg’d its youth that ev’ry grace divine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should with full lustre in their conduct shine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Saviour, which his soul did first receive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The greatest gift that ev’n a God can give,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He freely offer’d to the num’rous throng,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That on his lips with list’ning pleasure hung.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Take him, ye wretched, for your only good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Take him ye starving sinners, for your food;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Ye thirsty, come to this life-giving stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Ye preachers, take him for your joyful theme;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Take him my dear Americans, he said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Be your complaints on his kind bosom laid:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Take him, ye Africans, he longs for you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Impartial Saviour is his title due:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Wash’d in the fountain of redeeming blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“You shall be sons, and kings, and priests to God.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Great Countess,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" epub:type="noteref">3</a> we Americans revere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy name, and mingle in thy grief sincere;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New England deeply feels, the Orphans mourn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their more than father will no more return.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">But, though arrested by the hand of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whitefield no more exerts his lab’ring breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet let us view him in th’ eternal skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let ev’ry heart to this bright vision rise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the tomb safe retains its sacred trust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till life divine re-animates his dust.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-the-death-of-a-young-lady-of-five-years-of-age" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On the Death of a Young Lady of Five Years of Age</h2>
			<p>
				<span>From dark abodes to fair etherial light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Th’ enraptur’d innocent has wing’d her flight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the kind bosom of eternal love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She finds unknown beatitude above.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This know, ye parents, nor her loss deplore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She feels the iron hand of pain no more;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dispensations of unerring grace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should turn your sorrows into grateful praise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let then no tears for her henceforward flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more distress’d in our dark vale below.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Her morning sun, which rose divinely bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was quickly mantled with the gloom of night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But hear in heav’n’s blest bow’rs your Nancy fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And learn to imitate her language there.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Thou, Lord, whom I behold with glory crown’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“By what sweet name, and in what tuneful sound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Wilt thou be prais’d? Seraphic pow’rs are faint</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Infinite love and majesty to paint.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“To thee let all their graceful voices raise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And saints and angels join their songs of praise.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Perfect in bliss she from her heav’nly home</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Looks down, and smiling beckons you to come;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why then, fond parents, why these fruitless groans?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Restrain your tears, and cease your plaintive moans.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Freed from a world of sin, and snares, and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why would you wish your daughter back again?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No⁠—bow resign’d. Let hope your grief control,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And check the rising tumult of the soul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Calm in the prosperous, and adverse day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adore the God who gives and takes away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eye him in all, his holy name revere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upright your actions, and your hearts sincere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till having sail’d through life’s tempestuous sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from its rocks, and boist’rous billows free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yourselves, safe landed on the blissful shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall join your happy babe to part no more.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-the-death-of-a-young-gentleman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On the Death of a Young Gentleman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Who taught thee conflict with the pow’rs of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To vanquish satan in the fields of light?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who strung thy feeble arms with might unknown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How great thy conquest, and how bright thy crown!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>War with each princedom, throne, and pow’r is o’er,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The scene is ended to return no more.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O could my muse thy seat on high behold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How deckt with laurel, how enrich’d with gold!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O could she hear what praise thine harp employs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How sweet thine anthems, how divine thy joys!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What heav’nly grandeur should exalt her strain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What holy raptures in her numbers reign!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sooth the troubles of the mind to peace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To still the tumult of life’s tossing seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To ease the anguish of the parents heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What shall my sympathizing verse impart?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where is the balm to heal so deep a wound?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where shall a sov’reign remedy be found?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look, gracious Spirit, from thine heav’nly bow’r,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thy full joys into their bosoms pour;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The raging tempest of their grief control,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And spread the dawn of glory through the soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To eye the path the saint departed trod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And trace him to the bosom of his God.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-lady-on-the-death-of-her-husband" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Lady on the Death of Her Husband</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Grim monarch! see, depriv’d of vital breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A young physician in the dust of death:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dost thou go on incessant to destroy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our griefs to double, and lay waste our joy?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enough thou never yet wast known to say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though millions die, the vassals of thy sway:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor youth, nor science, not the ties of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor ought on earth thy flinty heart can move.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The friend, the spouse from his dire dart to save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In vain we ask the sovereign of the grave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fair mourner, there see thy lov’d Leonard laid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er him spread the deep impervious shade;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clos’d are his eyes, and heavy fetters keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His senses bound in never-waking sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till time shall cease, till many a starry world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall fall from heav’n, in dire confusion hurl’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till nature in her final wreck shall lie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her last groan shall rend the azure sky:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not, not till then his active soul shall claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His body, a divine immortal frame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">But see the softly-stealing tears apace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pursue each other down the mourner’s face;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But cease thy tears, bid ev’ry sigh depart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cast the load of anguish from thine heart:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the cold shell of his great soul arise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And look beyond, thou native of the skies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There fix thy view, where fleeter than the wind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy Leonard mounts, and leaves the earth behind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thyself prepare to pass the vale of night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To join for ever on the hills of light:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To thine embrace this joyful spirit moves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To thee, the partner of his earthly loves;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He welcomes thee to pleasures more refin’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And better suited to th’ immortal mind.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="goliath-of-gath" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">
					<span>Goliath of Gath</span>
					<span epub:type="subtitle"><span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> <abbr class="name">Sam.</abbr>, <abbr>Chap.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XVII</span></span>
				</h2>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Ye martial pow’rs, and all ye tuneful nine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inspire my song, and aid my high design.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dreadful scenes and toils of war I write,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ardent warriors, and the fields of fight:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You best remember, and you best can sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The acts of heroes to the vocal string:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resume the lays with which your sacred lyre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did then the poet and the sage inspire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Now front to front the armies were display’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here Israel rang’d, and there the foes array’d;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hosts on two opposing mountains stood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thick as the foliage of the waving wood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Between them an extensive valley lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er which the gleaming armour pour’d the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When from the camp of the Philistine foes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dreadful to view, a mighty warrior rose;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the dire deeds of bleeding battle skill’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The monster stalks the terror of the field.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Gath he sprung, Goliath was his name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of fierce deportment, and gigantic frame:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A brazen helmet on his head was plac’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A coat of mail his form terrific grac’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The greaves his legs, the targe his shoulders prest:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dreadful in arms high-tow’ring o’er the rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A spear he proudly wav’d, whose iron head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strange to relate, six hundred shekels weigh’d;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He strode along, and shook the ample field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While Phoebus blaz’d refulgent on his shield:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through Jacob’s race a chilling horror ran,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thus the huge, enormous chief began:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Say, what the cause that in this proud array</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“You set your battle in the face of day?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“One hero find in all your vaunting train,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Then see who loses, and who wins the plain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“For he who wins, in triumph may demand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Perpetual service from the vanquish’d land:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Your armies I defy, your force despise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“By far inferior in Philistia’s eyes:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Produce a man, and let us try the fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Decide the contest, and the victor’s right.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Thus challeng’d he: all Israel stood amaz’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ev’ry chief in consternation gaz’d;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Jesse’s son in youthful bloom appears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And warlike courage far beyond his years:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He left the folds, he left the flow’ry meads,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soft recesses of the sylvan shades.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now Israel’s monarch, and his troops arise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With peals of shouts ascending to the skies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Elah’s vale the scene of combat lies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">When the fair morning blush’d with orient red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What David’s fire enjoin’d the son obey’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And swift of foot towards the trench he came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where glow’d each bosom with the martial flame.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He leaves his carriage to another’s care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And runs to greet his brethren of the war.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While yet they spake the giant-chief arose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Repeats the challenge, and insults his foes:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Struck with the sound, and trembling at the view,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Affrighted Israel from its post withdrew.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Observe ye this tremendous foe, they cry’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Who in proud vaunts our armies hath defy’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Whoever lays him prostrate on the plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Freedom in Israel for his house shall gain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And on him wealth unknown the king will pour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And give his royal daughter for his dow’r.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Then Jesse’s youngest hope: “My brethren say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“What shall be done for him who takes away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Reproach from Jacob, who destroys the chief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And puts a period to his country’s grief.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“He vaunts the honours of his arms abroad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And scorns the armies of the living God.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Thus spoke the youth, th’ attentive people ey’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wond’rous hero, and again reply’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Such the rewards our monarch will bestow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“On him who conquers, and destroys his foe.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Eliab heard, and kindled into ire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hear his shepherd-brother thus inquire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus begun: “What errand brought thee? say</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Who keeps thy flock? or does it go astray?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I know the base ambition of thine heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“But back in safety from the field depart.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Eliab thus to Jesse’s youngest heir,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Express’d his wrath in accents most severe.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When to his brother mildly he reply’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“What have I done? or what the cause to chide?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The words were told before the king, who sent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the young hero to his royal tent:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before the monarch dauntless he began,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“For this Philistine fail no heart of man:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I’ll take the vale, and with the giant fight:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I dread not all his boasts, nor all his might.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thus the king: “Dar’st thou a stripling go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And venture combat with so great a foe?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Who all his days has been inur’d to fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And made its deeds his study and delight:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Battles and bloodshed brought the monster forth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And clouds and whirlwinds usher’d in his birth.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When David thus: “I kept the fleecy care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And out there rush’d a lion and a bear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“A tender lamb the hungry lion took,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And with no other weapon than my crook</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Bold I pursu’d, and chas’d him o’er the field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The prey deliver’d, and the felon kill’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“As thus the lion and the bear I slew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“So shall Goliath fall, and all his crew:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The God, who sav’d me from these beasts of prey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“By me this monster in the dust shall lay.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So David spoke. The wond’ring king reply’d;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Go thou with heav’n and victory on thy side:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“This coat of mail, this sword gird on,” he said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And plac’d a mighty helmet on his head:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The coat, the sword, the helm he laid aside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor chose to venture with those arms untry’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then took his staff, and to the neighb’ring brook</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Instant he ran, and thence five pebbles took.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mean time descended to Philistia’s son</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A radiant cherub, and he thus begun:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Goliath, well thou know’st thou hast defy’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Yon Hebrew armies, and their God deny’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Rebellious wretch! audacious worm! forbear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Nor tempt the vengeance of their God too far:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Them, who with his omnipotence contend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“No eye shall pity, and no arm defend:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Proud as thou art, in short liv’d glory great,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I come to tell thee thine approaching fate.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Regard my words. The judge of all the gods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Beneath whose steps the tow’ring mountain nods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Will give thine armies to the savage brood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“That cut the liquid air, or range the wood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Thee too a well-aim’d pebble shall destroy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And thou shalt perish by a beardless boy:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Such is the mandate from the realms above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And should I try the vengeance to remove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Myself a rebel to my king would prove.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Goliath say, shall grace to him be shown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Who dares heav’ns Monarch, and insults his throne?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Your words are lost on me,” the giant cries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While fear and wrath contended in his eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thus the messenger from heav’n replies:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Provoke no more Jehovah’s awful hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“To hurl its vengeance on thy guilty land:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“He grasps the thunder, and, he wings the storm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Servants their sov’reign’s orders to perform.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The angel spoke, and turn’d his eyes away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adding new radiance to the rising day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Now David comes: the fatal stones demand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His left, the staff engag’d his better hand:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The giant mov’d, and from his tow’ring height</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Survey’d the stripling, and disdain’d the fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus began: “Am I a dog with thee?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Bring’st thou no armour, but a staff to me?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The gods on thee their vollied curses pour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And beasts and birds of prey thy flesh devour.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">David undaunted thus, “Thy spear and shield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Shall no protection to thy body yield:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Jehovah’s name⁠—no other arms I bear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I ask no other in this glorious war.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“To-day the Lord of Hosts to me will give</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Vict’ry, to-day thy doom thou shalt receive;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The fate you threaten shall your own become,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And beasts shall be your animated tomb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“That all the earth’s inhabitants may know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“That there’s a God, who governs all below:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“This great assembly too shall witness stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“That needs nor sword, nor spear, th’ Almighty’s hand:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The battle his, the conquest he bestows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And to our pow’r consigns our hated foes.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Thus David spoke; Goliath heard and came</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To meet the hero in the field of fame.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah! fatal meeting to thy troops and thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But thou wast deaf to the divine decree;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Young David meets thee, meets thee not in vain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis thine to perish on th’ ensanguin’d plain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">And now the youth the forceful pebble flung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Philistia trembled as it whizz’d along:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In his dread forehead, where the helmet ends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just o’er the brows the well-aim’d stone descends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It pierc’d the skull, and shatter’d all the brain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Prone on his face he tumbled to the plain:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Goliath’s fall no smaller terror yields</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than riving thunders in aerial fields:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The soul still ling’red in its lov’d abode,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till conq’ring David o’er the giant strode:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Goliath’s sword then laid its master dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from the body hew’d the ghastly head;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The blood in gushing torrents drench’d the plains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The soul found passage through the spouting veins.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">And now aloud th’ illustrious victor said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Where are your boastings now your champion’s dead?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scarce had he spoke, when the Philistines fled:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But fled in vain; the conqu’ror swift pursu’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What scenes of slaughter! and what seas of blood!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There Saul thy thousands grasp’d th’ impurpled sand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In pangs of death the conquest of thine hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And David there were thy ten thousands laid:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus Israel’s damsels musically play’d.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Near Gath and Edron many an hero lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Breath’d out their souls, and curs’d the light of day:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their fury, quench’d by death, no longer burns,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And David with Goliath’s head returns,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Salem brought, but in his tent he plac’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The load of armour which the giant grac’d.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His monarch saw him coming from the war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus demanded of the son of Ner.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Say, who is this amazing youth?” he cry’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thus the leader of the host reply’d;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“As lives thy soul I know not whence he sprung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“So great in prowess though in years so young:”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Inquire whose son is he,” the sov’reign said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Before whose conq’ring arm Philistia fled.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before the king behold the stripling stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Goliath’s head depending from his hand:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To him the king: “Say of what martial line</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Art thou, young hero, and what sire was thine?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He humbly thus; “The son of Jesse I:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I came the glories of the field to try.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Small is my tribe, but valiant in the fight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Small is my city, but thy royal right.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Then take the promis’d gifts,” the monarch cry’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Conferring riches and the royal bride:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Knit to my soul for ever thou remain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“With me, nor quit my regal roof again.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="thoughts-on-the-works-of-providence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Thoughts on the Works of Providence</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Arise, my soul, on wings enraptur’d, rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To praise the monarch of the earth and skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose goodness and benificence appear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As round its centre moves the rolling year,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or when the morning glows with rosy charms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or the sun slumbers in the ocean’s arms:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of light divine be a rich portion lent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To guide my soul, and favour my intent.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Celestial muse, my arduous flight sustain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And raise my mind to a seraphic strain!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Ador’d for ever be the God unseen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which round the sun revolves this vast machine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though to his eye its mass a point appears:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ador’d the God that whirls surrounding spheres,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which first ordain’d that mighty Sol should reign</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The peerless monarch of th’ ethereal train:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of miles twice forty millions is his height,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet his radiance dazzles mortal sight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So far beneath⁠—from him th’ extended earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Vigour derives, and ev’ry flow’ry birth:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Vast through her orb she moves with easy grace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around her Phoebus in unbounded space;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>True to her course th’ impetuous storm derides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Triumphant o’er the winds, and surging tides.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Almighty, in these wond’rous works of thine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What Pow’r, what Wisdom, and what Goodness shine!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And are thy wonders, Lord, by men explor’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet creating glory unador’d!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Creation smiles in various beauty gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While day to night, and night succeeds to day:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Wisdom, which attends Jehovah’s ways,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shines most conspicuous in the solar rays:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without them, destitute of heat and light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This world would be the reign of endless night:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In their excess how would our race complain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Abhorring life! how hate its length’ned chain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From air adust what num’rous ills would rise?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What dire contagion taint the burning skies?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What pestilential vapours, fraught with death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would rise, and overspread the lands beneath?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Hail, smiling morn, that from the orient main</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ascending dost adorn the heav’nly plain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So rich, so various are thy beauteous dies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That spread through all the circuit of the skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That, full of thee, my soul in rapture soars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thy great God, the cause of all adores.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">O’er beings infinite his love extends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His Wisdom rules them, and his Pow’r defends.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When tasks diurnal tire the human frame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The spirits faint, and dim the vital flame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then too that ever active bounty shines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which not infinity of space confines.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sable veil, that Night in silence draws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Conceals effects, but shows th’ Almighty Cause;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night seals in sleep the wide creation fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all is peaceful but the brow of care.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again, gay Phoebus, as the day before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wakes ev’ry eye, but what shall wake no more;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again the face of nature is renew’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which still appears harmonious, fair, and good.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May grateful strains salute the smiling morn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before its beams the eastern hills adorn!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Shall day to day, and night to night conspire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To show the goodness of the Almighty Sire?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This mental voice shall man regardless hear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never, never raise the filial pray’r?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To-day, O hearken, nor your folly mourn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For time mispent, that never will return.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">But see the sons of vegetation rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And spread their leafy banners to the skies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All-wise Almighty Providence we trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In trees, and plants, and all the flow’ry race;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As clear as in the nobler frame of man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All lovely copies of the Maker’s plan.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pow’r the same that forms a ray of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That call d creation from eternal night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Let there be light,” he said: from his profound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Chaos heard, and trembled at the sound:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swift as the word, inspir’d by pow’r divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behold the light around its maker shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The first fair product of th’ omnific God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now through all his works diffus’d abroad.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">As reason’s pow’rs by day our God disclose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So we may trace him in the night’s repose:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say what is sleep? and dreams how passing strange!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When action ceases, and ideas range</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Licentious and unbounded o’er the plains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Fancy’s queen in giddy triumph reigns.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hear in soft strains the dreaming lover sigh</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To a kind fair, or rave in jealousy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On pleasure now, and now on vengeance bent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lab’ring passions struggle for a vent.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What pow’r, O man! thy reason then restores,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So long suspended in nocturnal hours?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What secret hand returns the mental train,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And gives improv’d thine active pow’rs again?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From thee, O man, what gratitude should rise!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, when from balmy sleep thou op’st thine eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let thy first thoughts be praises to the skies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How merciful our God who thus imparts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’erflowing tides of joy to human hearts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When wants and woes might be our righteous lot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our God forgetting, by our God forgot!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Among the mental pow’rs a question rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“What most the image of th’ Eternal shows?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thus to Reason (so let Fancy rove)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her great companion spoke immortal Love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Say, mighty pow’r, how long shall strife prevail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And with its murmurs load the whisp’ring gale?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Refer the cause to Recollection’s shrine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Who loud proclaims my origin divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The cause whence heav’n and earth began to be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And is not man immortaliz’d by me?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Reason let this most causeless strife subside.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus Love pronounc’d, and Reason thus reply’d.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Thy birth, coelestial queen! ’tis mine to own,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“In thee resplendent is the Godhead shown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Thy words persuade, my soul enraptur’d feels</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Resistless beauty which thy smile reveals.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ardent she spoke, and, kindling at her charms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She clasp’d the blooming goddess in her arms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Infinite Love where’er we turn our eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Appears: this ev’ry creature’s wants supplies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This most is heard in Nature’s constant voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This makes the morn, and this the eve rejoice;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This bids the fost’ring rains and dews descend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To nourish all, to serve one gen’ral end,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The good of man: yet man ungrateful pays</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But little homage, and but little praise.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To him, whose works arry’d with mercy shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What songs should rise, how constant, how divine!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-lady-on-the-death-of-three-relations" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Lady on the Death of Three Relations</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We trace the pow’r of Death from tomb to tomb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his are all the ages yet to come.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis his to call the planets from on high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To blacken Phoebus, and dissolve the sky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His too, when all in his dark realms are hurl’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From its firm base to shake the solid world;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His fatal sceptre rules the spacious whole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And trembling nature rocks from pole to pole.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Awful he moves, and wide his wings are spread:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behold thy brother number’d with the dead!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From bondage freed, the exulting spirit flies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beyond Olympus, and these starry skies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lost in our woe for thee, blest shade, we mourn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In vain; to earth thou never must return.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sisters too, fair mourner, feel the dart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Death, and with fresh torture rend thine heart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weep not for them, who wish thine happy mind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To rise with them, and leave the world behind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">As a young plant by hurricanes up torn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So near its parent lies the newly born⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ’midst the bright ehtereal train behold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It shines superior on a throne of gold:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then, mourner, cease; let hope thy tears restrain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smile on the tomb, and sooth the raging pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On yon blest regions fix thy longing view,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mindless of sublunary scenes below;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ascend the sacred mount, in thought arise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And seek substantial and immortal joys;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where hope receives, where faith to vision springs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And raptur’d seraphs tune th’ immortal strings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To strains extatic. Thou the chorus join,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to thy father tune the praise divine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-clergyman-on-the-death-of-his-lady" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Clergyman on the Death of His Lady</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Where contemplation finds her sacred spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where heav’nly music makes the arches ring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where virtue reigns unsully’d and divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where wisdom thron’d, and all the graces shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There sits thy spouse amidst the radiant throng,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While praise eternal warbles from her tongue;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There choirs angelic shout her welcome round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With perfect bliss, and peerless glory crown’d.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">While thy dear mate, to flesh no more confin’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exults a blest, an heav’n-ascended mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say in thy breast shall floods of sorrow rise?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say shall its torrents overwhelm thine eyes?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Amid the seats of heav’n a place is free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And angels open their bright ranks for thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thee they wait, and with expectant eye</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy spouse leans downward from th’ empyreal sky:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“O come away,” her longing spirit cries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And share with me the raptures of the skies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Our bliss divine to mortals is unknown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Immortal life and glory are our own.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“There too may the dear pledges of our love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Arrive, and taste with us the joys above;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Attune the harp to more than mortal lays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And join with us the tribute of their praise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“To him, who dy’d stern justice to atone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And make eternal glory all our own.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“He in his death slew ours, and, as he rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“He crush’d the dire dominion of our foes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Vain were their hopes to put the God to flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Chain us to hell, and bar the gates of light.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">She spoke, and turn’d from mortal scenes her eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which beam’d celestial radiance o’er the skies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Then thou dear man, no more with grief retire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let grief no longer damp devotion’s fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But rise sublime, to equal bliss aspire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sighs no more be wafted by the wind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more complain, but be to heav’n resign’d.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas thine t’ unfold the oracles divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sooth our woes the task was also thine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now sorrow is incumbent on thy heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Permit the muse a cordial to impart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who can to thee their tend’rest aid refuse?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To dry thy tears how longs the heav’nly muse!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-hymn-to-the-morning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Hymn to the Morning</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Attend my lays, ye ever honour’d nine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Assist my labours, and my strains refine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In smoothest numbers pour the notes along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For bright Aurora now demands my song.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Aurora hail, and all the thousand dies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which deck thy progress through the vaulted skies:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The morn awakes, and wide extends her rays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On ev’ry leaf the gentle zephyr plays;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Harmonious lays the feather’d race resume,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dart the bright eye, and shake the painted plume.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Ye shady groves, your verdant gloom display</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To shield your poet from the burning day:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Calliope awake the sacred lyre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While thy fair sisters fan the pleasing fire:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bow’rs, the gales, the variegated skies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In all their pleasures in my bosom rise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">See in the east th’ illustrious king of day!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His rising radiance drives the shades away⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Oh! I feel his fervid beams too strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And scarce begun, concludes th’ abortive song.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-hymn-to-the-evening" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Hymn to the Evening</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Soon as the sun forsook the eastern main</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pealing thunder shook the heav’nly plain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Majestic grandeur! From the zephyr’s wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exhales the incense of the blooming spring.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soft purl the streams, the birds renew their notes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And through the air their mingled music floats.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Through all the heav’ns what beauteous dies are spread!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the west glories in the deepest red:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So may our breasts with ev’ry virtue glow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The living temples of our God below!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Fill’d with the praise of him who gives the light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And draws the sable curtains of the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let placid slumbers sooth each weary mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At morn to wake more heav’nly, more refin’d;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So shall the labours of the day begin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More pure, more guarded from the snares of sin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Night’s leaden sceptre seals my drowsy eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then cease, my song, till fair Aurora rise.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="isaiah-lxiii-1-8" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Isaiah <span epub:type="z3998:roman">LXIII</span> 1⁠–⁠8</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Say, heav’nly muse, what king or mighty God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That moves sublime from Idumea’s road?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Bosrah’s dies, with martial glories join’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His purple vesture waves upon the wind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why thus enrob’d delights he to appear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the dread image of the Pow’r of war?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Compres’d in wrath the swelling wine-press groan’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It bled, and pour’d the gushing purple round.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Mine was the act,” th’ Almighty Saviour said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shook the dazzling glories of his head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“When all forsook I trod the press alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And conquer’d by omnipotence my own;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“For man’s release sustain’d the pond’rous load,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“For man the wrath of an immortal God:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“To execute th’ Eternal’s dread command</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“My soul I sacrific’d with willing hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Sinless I stood before the avenging frown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Atoning thus for vices not my own.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">His eye the ample field of battle round</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Survey’d, but no created succours found;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His own omnipotence sustain’d the fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His vengeance sunk the haughty foes in night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath his feet the prostrate troops were spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And round him lay the dying, and the dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Great God, what light’ning flashes from thine eyes?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What pow’r withstands if thou indignant rise?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Against thy Zion though her foes may rage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all their cunning, all their strength engage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet she serenely on thy bosom lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smiles at their arts, and all their force defies.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-recollection" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On Recollection</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Mneme begin. Inspire, ye sacred nine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your vent’rous Afric in her great design.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mneme, immortal pow’r, I trace thy spring:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Assist my strains, while I thy glories sing:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The acts of long departed years, by thee</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Recover’d, in due order rang’d we see:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy pow’r the long-forgotten calls from night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That sweetly plays before the fancy’s sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Mneme in our nocturnal visions pours</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ample treasure of her secret stores;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swift from above the wings her silent flight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through Phoebe’s realms, fair regent of the night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, in her pomp of images display’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the high-raptur’d poet gives her aid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the unbounded regions of the mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Diffusing light celestial and refin’d.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The heav’nly phantom paints the actions done</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By ev’ry tribe beneath the rolling sun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Mneme, enthron’d within the human breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has vice condemn’d, and ev’ry virtue blest.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How sweet the sound when we her plaudit hear?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweeter than music to the ravish’d ear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweeter than Maro’s entertaining strains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resounding through the groves, and hills, and plains.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But how is Mneme dreaded by the race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who scorn her warnings and despise her grace?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By her unveil’d each horrid crime appears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her awful hand a cup of wormwood bears.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Days, years mispent, O what a hell of woe!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hers the worst tortures that our souls can know.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Now eighteen years their destin’d course have run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In fast succession round the central sun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How did the follies of that period pass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unnotic’d, but behold them writ in brass!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Recollection see them fresh return,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sure ’tis mine to be asham’d, and mourn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">O Virtue, smiling in immortal green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do thou exert thy pow’r, and change the scene;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be thine employ to guide my future days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mine to pay the tribute of my praise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Of Recollection such the pow’r enthron’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In ev’ry breast, and thus her pow’r is own’d.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wretch, who dar’d the vengeance of the skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At last awakes in horror and surprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By her alarm’d, he sees impending fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He howls in anguish, and repents too late.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But O! what peace, what joys are hers t’ impart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To ev’ry holy, ev’ry upright heart!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thrice blest the man, who, in her sacred shrine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feels himself shelter’d from the wrath divine!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-imagination" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On Imagination</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Thy various works, imperial queen, we see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How bright their forms! how deck’d with pomp by thee!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy wond’rous acts in beauteous order stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all attest how potent is thine hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">From Helicon’s refulgent heights attend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye sacred choir, and my attempts befriend:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To tell her glories with a faithful tongue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye blooming graces, triumph in my song.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Now here, now there, the roving Fancy flies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till some lov’d object strikes her wand’ring eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose silken fetters all the senses bind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soft captivity involves the mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Imagination! who can sing thy force?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or who describe the swiftness of thy course?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soaring through air to find the bright abode,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Th’ empyreal palace of the thund’ring God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We on thy pinions can surpass the wind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leave the rolling universe behind:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From star to star the mental optics rove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Measure the skies, and range the realms above.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There in one view we grasp the mighty whole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or with new worlds amaze th’ unbounded soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Though Winter frowns to Fancy’s raptur’d eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fields may flourish, and gay scenes arise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The frozen deeps may break their iron bands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bid their waters murmur o’er the sands.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fair Flora may resume her fragrant reign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with her flow’ry riches deck the plain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sylvanus may diffuse his honours round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the forest may with leaves be crown’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Show’rs may descend, and dews their gems disclose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And nectar sparkle on the blooming rose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Such is thy pow’r, nor are thine orders vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O thou the leader of the mental train:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In full perfection all thy works are wrought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thine the sceptre o’er the realms of thought.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before thy throne the subject-passions bow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of subject-passions sov’reign ruler Thou;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At thy command joy rushes on the heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And through the glowing veins the spirits dart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Fancy might now her silken pinions try</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To rise from earth, and sweep th’ expanse on high;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Tithon’s bed now might Aurora rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her cheeks all glowing with celestial dies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While a pure stream of light o’erflows the skies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The monarch of the day I might behold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the mountains tipt with radiant gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I reluctant leave the pleasing views,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which Fancy dresses to delight the Muse;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Winter austere forbids me to aspire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And northern tempests damp the rising fire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They chill the tides of Fancy’s flowing sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cease then, my song, cease the unequal lay.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-funeral-poem-on-the-death-of-c-e-an-infant-of-twelve-months" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Funeral Poem on the Death of <abbr class="name">C. E.</abbr> An Infant of Twelve Months</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Through airy roads he wings his instant flight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To purer regions of celestial light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enlarg’d he sees unnumber’d systems roll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath him sees the universal whole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Planets on planets run their destin’d round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And circling wonders fill the vast profound.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Th’ ethereal now, and now th’ empyreal skies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With growing splendors strike his wond’ring eyes:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The angels view him with delight unknown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Press his soft hand, and seat him on his throne;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then smilling thus: “To this divine abode,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The seat of saints, of seraphs, and of God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Thrice welcome thou.” The raptur’d babe replies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Thanks to my God, who snatch’d me to the skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“E’er vice triumphant had possess’d my heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“E’er yet the tempter had beguil’d my heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“E’er yet on sin’s base actions I was bent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“E’er yet I knew temptation’s dire intent;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“E’er yet the lash for horrid crimes I felt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“E’er vanity had led my way to guilt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“But, soon arriv’d at my celestial goal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Full glories rush on my expanding soul.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Joyful he spoke: exulting cherubs round</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clapt their glad wings, the heav’nly vaults resound.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Say, parents, why this unavailing moan?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why heave your pensive bosoms with the groan?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Charles, the happy subject of my song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A brighter world, and nobler strains belong.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say would you tear him from the realms above</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By thoughtless wishes, and prepost’rous love?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doth his felicity increase your pain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or could you welcome to this world again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The heir of bliss? with a superior air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Methinks he answers with a smile severe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Thrones and dominions cannot tempt me there.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">But still you cry, “Can we the sigh forbear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And still and still must we not pour the tear?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Our only hope, more dear than vital breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Twelve moons revolv’d, becomes the prey of death;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Delightful infant, nightly visions give</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Thee to our arms, and we with joy receive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“We fain would clasp the Phantom to our breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The Phantom flies, and leaves the soul unblest.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">To yon bright regions let your faith ascend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Prepare to join your dearest infant friend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In pleasures without measure, without end.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-captain-h-d-of-the-65th-regiment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Captain H⁠⸺⁠d, of the 65th Regiment</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Say, muse divine, can hostile scenes delight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The warrior’s bosom in the fields of fight?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lo! here the christian and the hero join</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With mutual grace to form the man divine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In <b>H⁠⸺⁠d</b> see with pleasure and surprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where valour kindles, and where virtue lies:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go, hero brave, still grace the post of fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And add new glories to thine honour’d name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still to the field, and still to virtue true:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Britannia glories in no son like you.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-right-honourable-william-earl-of-dartmouth-his-majestys-principal-secretary-of-state-for-north-america-c" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the Right Honourable William, Earl of Dartmouth, His Majesty’s Principal Secretary of State for North-America, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></h2>
			<p>
				<span>Hail, happy day, when, smiling like the morn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fair Freedom rose New-England to adorn:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The northern clime beneath her genial ray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dartmouth, congratulates thy blissful sway:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Elate with hope her race no longer mourns,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each soul expands, each grateful bosom burns,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While in thine hand with pleasure we behold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The silken reins, and Freedom’s charms unfold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long lost to realms beneath the northern skies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She shines supreme, while hated faction dies:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon as appear’d the Goddess long desir’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sick at the view, she languish’d and expir’d;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus from the splendors of the morning light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The owl in sadness seeks the caves of night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">No more, America, in mournful strain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of wrongs, and grievance unredress’d complain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No longer shalt thou dread the iron chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which wanton Tyranny with lawless hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had made, and with it meant t’ enslave the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Should you, my lord, while you peruse my song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wonder from whence my love of Freedom sprung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whence flow these wishes for the common good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By feeling hearts alone best understood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I, young in life, by seeming cruel fate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was snatch’d from Afric’s fancy’d happy seat:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What pangs excruciating must molest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What sorrows labour in my parent’s breast?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Steel’d was that soul and by no misery mov’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That from a father seiz’d his babe belov’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such, such my case. And can I then but pray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Others may never feel tyrannic sway?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">For favours past, great Sir, our thanks are due,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thee we ask thy favours to renew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since in thy pow’r, as in thy will before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sooth the griefs, which thou did’st once deplore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May heav’nly grace the sacred sanction give</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To all thy works, and thou for ever live</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not only on the wings of fleeting Fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though praise immortal crowns the patriot’s name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to conduct to heav’ns refulgent fane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May fiery coursers sweep th’ ethereal plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bear thee upwards to that blest abode,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where, like the prophet, thou shalt find thy God.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ode-to-neptune" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">
					<span>Ode to Neptune</span>
					<span epub:type="subtitle">On <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> W⁠⸺’s Voyage to England</span>
				</h2>
			</header>
			<section id="ode-to-neptune-1">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>While raging tempests shake the shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While Aelus’ thunders round us roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sweep impetuous o’er the plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be still, O tyrant of the main;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor let thy brow contracted frowns betray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While my Susanna skims the wat’ry way.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="ode-to-neptune-2">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Pow’r propitious hears the lay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blue-ey’d daughters of the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sweeter cadence glide along,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Thames responsive joins the song.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pleas’d with their notes Sol sheds benign his ray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And double radiance decks the face of day.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="ode-to-neptune-3">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To court thee to Britannia’s arms</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Serene the climes and mild the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her region boasts unnumber’d charms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy welcome smiles in ev’ry eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy promise, Neptune keep, record my pray’r,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not give my wishes to the empty air.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Boston, <time datetime="1772-10-10">October 10, 1772</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-lady-on-her-coming-to-north-america-with-her-son-for-the-recovery-of-her-health" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Lady on Her Coming to North-America with Her Son, for the Recovery of Her Health</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Indulgent muse! my grov’ling mind inspire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fill my bosom with celestial fire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">See from Jamaica’s fervid shore she moves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the fair mother of the blooming loves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When from above the Goddess with her hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fans the soft breeze, and lights upon the land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus she on Neptune’s wat’ry realm reclin’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Appear’d, and thus invites the ling’ring wind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Arise, ye winds, America explore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Waft me, ye gales, from this malignant shore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The Northern milder climes I long to greet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“There hope that health will my arrival meet.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon as she spoke in my ideal view</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The winds assented, and the vessel flew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Madam, your spouse bereft of wife and son,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the grove’s dark recesses pours his moan;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each branch, wide-spreading to the ambient sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgets its verdure, and submits to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">From thence I turn, and leave the sultry plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And swift pursue thy passage o’er the main:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ship arrives before the fav’ring wind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And makes the Philadelphian port assign’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thence I attend you to Bostonia’s arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where gen’rous friendship ev’ry bosom warms:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thrice welcome here! may health revive again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bloom on thy cheek, and bound in ev’ry vein!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then back return to gladden ev’ry heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And give your spouse his soul’s far dearer part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Receiv’d again with what a sweet surprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tear in transport starting from his eyes!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While his attendant son with blooming grace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Springs to his father’s ever dear embrace.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With shouts of joy Jamaica’s rocks resound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With shouts of joy the country rings around.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-lady-on-her-remarkable-preservation-in-an-hurricane-in-north-carolina" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Lady on Her Remarkable Preservation in an Hurricane in North-Carolina</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Though thou did’st hear the tempest from afar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And felt’st the horrors of the wat’ry war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To me unknown, yet on this peaceful shore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Methinks I hear the storm tumultuous roar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how stern Boreas with impetuous hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Compell’d the Nereids to usurp the land.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reluctant rose the daughters of the main,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And slow ascending glided o’er the plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till Aolus in his rapid chariot drove</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In gloomy grandeur from the vault above:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Furious he comes. His winged sons obey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their frantic sire, and madden all the sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The billows rave, the wind’s fierce tyrant roars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with his thund’ring terrors shakes the shores:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Broken by waves the vessel’s frame is rent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And strows with planks the wat’ry element.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">But thee, Maria, a kind Nereid’s shield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Preserv’d from sinking, and thy form upheld:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sure some heav’nly oracle design’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At that dread crisis to instruct thy mind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Things of eternal consequence to weigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to thine heart just feelings to convey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of things above, and of the future doom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And what the births of the dread world to come.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">From tossing seas I welcome thee to land.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Resign her, Nereid,” ’twas thy God’s command.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy spouse late buried, as thy fears conceiv’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again returns, thy fears are all reliev’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy daughter blooming with superior grace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again thou see’st, again thine arms embrace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O come, and joyful show thy spouse his heir,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And what the blessings of maternal care!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-lady-and-her-children-on-the-death-of-her-son-and-their-brother" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Lady and Her Children, on the Death of Her Son and Their Brother</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O’erwhelming sorrow now demands my song:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From death the overwhelming sorrow sprung.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What flowing tears? What hearts with grief opprest?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What sighs on sighs heave the fond parent’s breast?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The brother weeps, the hapless sisters join</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Th’ increasing woe, and swell the crystal brine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poor, who once his gen’rous bounty fed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Droop, and bewail their benefactor dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In death the friend, the kind companion lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in one death what various comfort dies!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Th’ unhappy mother sees the sanguine rill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forget to flow, and nature’s wheels stand still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But see from earth his spirit far remov’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And know no grief recals your best-belov’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He, upon pinions swifter than the wind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has left mortality’s sad scenes behind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For joys to this terrestial state unknown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And glories richer than the monarch’s crown.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of virtue’s steady course the prize behold!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What blissful wonders to his mind unfold!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But of celestial joys I sing in vain:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Attempt not, muse, the too advent’rous strain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">No more in briny show’rs, ye friends around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or bathe his clay, or waste them on the ground:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still do you weep, still wish for his return?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How cruel thus to wish, and thus to mourn?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more for him the streams of sorrow pour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But haste to join him on the heav’nly shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On harps of gold to tune immortal lays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to your God immortal anthems raise.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-gentleman-and-lady-on-the-death-of-the-ladys-brother-and-sister-and-a-child-of-the-name-of-avis-aged-one-year" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Gentleman and Lady on the Death of the Lady’s Brother and Sister, and a Child of the Name of Avis, Aged One Year</h2>
			<p>
				<span>On Death’s domain intent I fix my eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where human nature in vast ruin lies:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With pensive mind I search the drear abode,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the great conqu’ror has his spoils bestow’d;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There where the offspring of six thousand years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In endless numbers to my view appears:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whole kingdoms in his gloomy den are thrust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And nations mix with their primeval dust:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Insatiate still he gluts the ample tomb;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His is the present, his the age to come.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See here a brother, here a sister spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a sweet daughter mingled with the dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">But, Madam, let your grief be laid aside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let the fountain of your tears be dry’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In vain they flow to wet the dusty plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your sighs are wafted to the skies in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your pains they witness, but they can no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While Death reigns tyrant o’er this mortal shore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The glowing stars and silver queen of light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At last must perish in the gloom of night:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resign thy friends to that Almighty hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which gave them life, and bow to his command;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thine Avis give without a murm’ring heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though half thy soul be fated to depart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To shining guards consign thine infant care</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To waft triumphant through the seas of air:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her soul enlarg’d to heav’nly pleasure springs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She feeds on truth and uncreated things.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Methinks I hear her in the realms above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leaning forward with a filial love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Invite you there to share immortal bliss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unknown, untasted in a state like this.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With tow’ring hopes, and growing grace arise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And seek beatitude beyond the skies.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-the-death-of-dr-samuel-marshall-1771" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On the Death of <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Samuel Marshall. 1771</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Through thickest glooms look back, immortal shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On that confusion which thy death has made:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or from Olympus’ height look down, and see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A Town involv’d in grief bereft of thee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy Lucy sees thee mingle with the dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rends the graceful tresses from her head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wild in her woe, with grief unknown opprest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sigh follows sigh deep heaving from her breast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Too quickly fled, ah! whither art thou gone?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah! lost for ever to thy wife and son!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hapless child, thine only hope and heir,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clings round his mother’s neck, and weeps his sorrows there.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The loss of thee on Tyler’s soul returns,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Boston for her dear physician mourns.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">When sickness call’d for Marshall’s healing hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With what compassion did his soul expand?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In him we found the father and the friend:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In life how lov’d! how honour’d in his end!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">And must not then our Aesculapius stay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bring his ling’ring infant into day?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The babe unborn in the dark womb is tost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And seems in anguish for its father lost.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Gone is Apollo from his house of earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But leaves the sweet memorials of his worth:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The common parent, whom we all deplore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From yonder world unseen must come no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet ’midst our woes immortal hopes attend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The spouse, the sire, the universal friend.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-gentleman-on-his-voyage-to-great-britain-for-the-recovery-of-his-health" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Gentleman on His Voyage to Great-Britain for the Recovery of His Health</h2>
			<p>
				<span>While others chant of gay Elysian scenes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of balmy zephyrs, and of flow’ry plains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My song more happy speaks a greater name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feels higher motives and a nobler flame.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thee, O R⁠⸺, the muse attunes her strings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mounts sublime above inferior things.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">I sing not now of green embow’ring woods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I sing not now the daughters of the floods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I sing not of the storms o’er ocean driv’n,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how they howl’d along the waste of heav’n,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I to R⁠⸺ would paint the British shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And vast Atlantic, not untry’d before:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy life impair’d commands thee to arise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leave these bleak regions, and inclement skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where chilling winds return the winter past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And nature shudders at the furious blast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">O thou stupendous, earth-enclosing main</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exert thy wonders to the world again!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If ere thy pow’r prolong’d the fleeting breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Turn’d back the shafts, and mock’d the gates of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If ere thine air dispens’d an healing pow’r,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or snatch’d the victim from the fatal hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This equal case demands thine equal care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And equal wonders may this patient share.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But unavailing, frantic is the dream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hope thine aid without the aid of him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who gave thee birth and taught thee where to flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in thy waves his various blessings show.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">May R⁠⸺ return to view his native shore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Replete with vigour not his own before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then shall we see with pleasure and surprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And own thy work, great Ruler of the skies!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-rev-dr-thomas-amory-on-reading-his-sermons-on-daily-devotion-in-which-that-duty-is-recommended-and-assisted" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Thomas Amory, on Reading His Sermons on Daily Devotion, in Which That Duty Is Recommended and Assisted</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To cultivate in ev’ry noble mind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Habitual grace, and sentiments refin’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus while you strive to mend the human heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus while the heav’nly precepts you impart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O may each bosom catch the sacred fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And youthful minds to Virtue’s throne aspire!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">When God’s eternal ways you set in sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Virtue shines in all her native light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In vain would Vice her works in night conceal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Wisdom’s eye pervades the sable veil.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Artists may paint the sun’s effulgent rays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Amory’s pen the brighter God displays:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While his great works in Amory’s pages shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And while he proves his essence all divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Atheist sure no more can boast aloud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of chance, or nature, and exclude the God;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if the clay without the potter’s aid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should rise in various forms, and shapes self-made,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or worlds above with orb o’er orb profound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Self-mov’d could run the everlasting round.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It cannot be⁠—unerring Wisdom guides</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With eye propitious, and o’er all presides.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Still prosper, Amory! still may’st thou receive</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The warmest blessings which a muse can give,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when this transitory state is o’er,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When kingdoms fall, and fleeting Fame’s no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May Amory triumph in immortal fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A nobler title, and superior name!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-the-death-of-j-c-an-infant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On the Death of <abbr class="name">J. C.</abbr> An Infant</h2>
			<p>
				<span>No more the flow’ry scenes of pleasure rife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor charming prospects greet the mental eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more with joy we view that lovely face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smiling, disportive, flush’d with ev’ry grace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The tear of sorrow flows from ev’ry eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Groans answer groans, and sighs to sighs reply;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What sudden pangs shot thro’ each aching heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When, Death, thy messenger dispatch’d his dart?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy dread attendants, all-destroying Pow’r,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hurried the infant to his mortal hour.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could’st thou unpitying close those radiant eyes?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or fail’d his artless beauties to surprise?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could not his innocence thy stroke controul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy purpose shake, and soften all thy soul?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The blooming babe, with shades of Death o’er-spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more shall smile, no more shall raise its head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, like a branch that from the tree is torn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Falls prostrate, wither’d, languid, and forlorn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Where flies my James?” ’tis thus I seem to hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The parent ask, “Some angel tell me where</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“He wings his passage thro’ the yielding air?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Methinks a cherub bending from the skies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Observes the question, and serene replies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“In heav’ns high palaces your babe appears:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Prepare to meet him, and dismiss your tears.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall not th’ intelligence your grief restrain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And turn the mournful to the cheerful strain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cease your complaints, suspend each rising sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cease to accuse the Ruler of the sky.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Parents, no more indulge the falling tear:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let Faith to heav’n’s refulgent domes repair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There see your infant, like a seraph glow:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What charms celestial in his numbers flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Melodious, while the foul-enchanting strain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dwells on his tongue, and fills th’ ethereal plain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enough⁠—for ever cease your murm’ring breath;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not as a foe, but friend converse with Death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since to the port of happiness unknown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He brought that treasure which you call your own.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gift of heav’n intrusted to your hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cheerful resign at the divine command:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not at your bar must sov’reign Wisdom stand.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-hymn-to-humanity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">
					<span>An Hymn to Humanity</span>
					<span epub:type="subtitle">To <abbr class="name">S. P. G.</abbr> <abbr>Esq.</abbr>;</span>
				</h2>
			</header>
			<section id="an-hymn-to-humanity-1">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! for this dark terrestrial ball</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forsakes his azure-paved hall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A prince of heav’nly birth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Divine Humanity behold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What wonders rise, what charms unfold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">At his descent to earth!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="an-hymn-to-humanity-2">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The bosoms of the great and good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With wonder and delight he view’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And fix’d his empire there:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him, close compressing to his breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sire of gods and men address’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“My son, my heav’nly fair!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="an-hymn-to-humanity-3">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Descend to earth, there place thy throne;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“To succour man’s afflicted son</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“Each human heart inspire:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“To act in bounties unconfin’d</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Enlarge the close contracted mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“And fill it with thy fire.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="an-hymn-to-humanity-4">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Quick as the word, with swift career</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wings his course from star to star,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And leaves the bright abode.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Virtue did his charms impart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their G⁠⸺⁠y! then thy raptur’d heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Perceiv’d the rushing God:</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="an-hymn-to-humanity-5">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>For when thy pitying eye did see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The languid muse in low degree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Then, then at thy desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Descended the celestial nine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er me methought they deign’d to shine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And deign’d to string my lyre.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="an-hymn-to-humanity-6">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Can Afric’s muse forgetful prove?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or can such friendship fail to move</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A tender human heart?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Immortal Friendship laurel-crown’d</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The smiling Graces all surround</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With ev’ry heav’nly Art.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-honourable-t-h-esq-on-the-death-of-his-daughter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the Honourable <abbr class="name">T. H.</abbr> <abbr>Esq.</abbr>; On the Death of His Daughter</h2>
			<p>
				<span>While deep you mourn beneath the cypress-shade</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hand of Death, and your dear daughter laid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In dust, whose absence gives your tears to flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And racks your bosom with incessant woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let Recollection take a tender part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Assuage the raging tortures of your heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still the wild tempest of tumultuous grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pour the heav’nly nectar of relief:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Suspend the sigh, dear Sir, and check the groan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Divinely bright your daughter’s Virtues shone:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How free from scornful pride her gentle mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which ne’er its aid to indigence declin’d!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Expanding free, it sought the means to prove</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unfailing charity, unbounded love!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">She unreluctant flies to see no more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her dear-lov’d parents on earth’s dusky shore:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Impatient heav’n’s resplendent goal to gain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She with swift progress cuts the azure plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where grief subsides, where changes are no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And life’s tumultuous billows cease to roar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She leaves her earthly mansion for the skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where new creations feast her wond’ring eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">To heav’n’s high mandate cheerfully resign’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She mounts, and leaves the rolling globe behind;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She, who late wish’d that Leonard might return,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has ceas’d to languish, and forgot to mourn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the same high empyreal mansions come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She joins her spouse, and smiles upon the tomb:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus I hear her from the realms above:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Lo! this the kingdom of celestial love!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Could ye, fond parents, see our present bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“How soon would you each sigh, each fear dismiss?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Amidst unutter’d pleasures whilst I play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“In the fair sunshine of celestial day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“As far as grief affects an happy soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“So far doth grief my better mind controul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“To see on earth my aged parents mourn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And secret wish for T⁠⸺⁠l to return:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Let brighter scenes your ev’ning-hours employ:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Converse with heav’n, and taste the promis’d joy”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="niobe-in-distress-for-her-children-slain-by-apollo-from-ovids-metamorphoses-book-vi-and-from-a-view-of-the-painting-of-mr-richard-wilson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Niobe in Distress for Her Children Slain by Apollo, from Ovid’s Metamorphoses, Book <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VI</span> and from a View of the Painting of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Richard Wilson</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Apollo’s wrath to man the dreadful spring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of ills innum’rous, tuneful goddess, sing!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou who did’st first th’ ideal pencil give,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And taught’st the painter in his works to live,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inspire with glowing energy of thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What Wilson painted, and what Ovid wrote.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Muse! lend thy aid, nor let me sue in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tho’ last and meanest of the rhyming train!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O guide my pen in lofty strains to show</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Phrygian queen, all beautiful in woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">’Twas where Maeonia spreads her wide domain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Niobe dwelt, and held her potent reign:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See in her hand the regal sceptre shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wealthy heir of Tantalus divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He most distinguish’d by Dodonean Jove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To approach the tables of the gods above:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her grandsire Atlas, who with mighty pains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Th’ ethereal axis on his neck sustains:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her other grandsire on the throne on high</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rolls the loud-pealing thunder thro’ the sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Her spouse, Amphion, who from Jove too springs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Divinely taught to sweep the sounding strings.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Seven sprightly sons the royal bed adorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seven daughters beauteous as the op’ning morn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As when Aurora fills the ravish’d sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And decks the orient realms with rosy light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From their bright eyes the living splendors play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor can beholders bear the flashing ray.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Wherever, Niobe, thou turn’st thine eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New beauties kindle, and new joys arise!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But thou had’st far the happier mother prov’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If this fair offspring had been less belov’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What if their charms exceed Aurora’s teint.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No words could tell them, and no pencil paint,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy love too vehement hastens to destroy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each blooming maid, and each celestial boy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Now Manto comes, endu’d with mighty skill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The past to explore, the future to reveal.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thro’ Thebes’ wide streets Tiresia’s daughter came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Divine Latona’s mandate to proclaim:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Theban maids to hear the orders ran,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thus Maeonia’s prophetess began:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Go, Thebans! great Latona’s will obey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And pious tribute at her altars pay:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“With rights divine, the goddess be implor’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Nor be her sacred offspring unador’d.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus Manto spoke. The Theban maids obey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pious tribute to the goddess pay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rich perfumes ascend in waving spires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And altars blaze with consecrated fires;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fair assembly moves with graceful air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leaves of laurel bind the flowing hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Niobe comes with all her royal race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With charms unnumber’d, and superior grace:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her Phrygian garments of delightful hue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inwove with gold, refulgent to the view,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beyond description beautiful she moves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like heav’nly Venus, ’midst her smiles and loves:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She views around the supplicating train,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shakes her graceful head with stern disdain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Proudly she turns around her lofty eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus reviles celestial deities:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“What madness drives the Theban ladies fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“To give their incense to surrounding air?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Say why this new sprung deity preferr’d?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Why vainly fancy your petitions heard?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Or say why Caeus’ offspring is obey’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“While to my goddesship no tribute’s paid?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“For me no altars blaze with living fires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“No bullock bleeds, no frankincense transpires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Tho’ Cadmus’ palace, not unknown to fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And Phrygian nations all revere my name.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Where’er I turn my eyes vast wealth I find.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Lo! here an empress with a goddess join’d.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“What, shall a Titaness be deify’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“To whom the spacious earth a couch deny’d!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Nor heav’n, nor earth, nor sea receiv’d your queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“ ’Till pitying Delos took the wand’rer in.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Round me what a large progeny is spread!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“No frowns of fortune has my soul to dread.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“What if indignant she decrease my train</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“More than Latona’s number will remain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Then hence, ye Theban dames, hence haste away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Nor longer off’rings to Latona pay?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Regard the orders of Amphion’s spouse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And take the leaves of laurel from your brows.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Niobe spoke. The Theban maids obey’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their brows unbound, and left the rights unpaid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The angry goddess heard, then silence broke</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On Cynthus’ summit, and indignant spoke;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Phoebus! behold, thy mother in disgrace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Who to no goddess yields the prior place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Except to Juno’s self, who reigns above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The spouse and sister of the thund’ring Jove.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Niobe, sprung from Tantalus, inspires</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Each Theban bosom with rebellious fires;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“No reason her imperious temper quells,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“But all her father in her tongue rebels;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Wrap her own sons for her blaspheming breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Apollo! wrap them in the shades of death.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Latona ceas’d, and ardent thus replies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The God, whose glory decks th’ expanded skies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">“Cease thy complaints, mine be the task assign’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“To punish pride, and scourge the rebel mind.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This Phoebe join’d.⁠—They wing their instant flight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thebes trembled as th’ immortal pow’rs alight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">With clouds incompass’d glorious Phoebus stands;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The feather’d vengeance quiv’ring in his hands.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Near Cadmus’ walls a plain extended lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Thebes’ young princes pass’d in sport the day:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There the bold coursers bounded o’er the plains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While their great masters held the golden reins.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ismenus first the racing pastime led,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rul’d the fury of his flying steed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Ah me,” he sudden cries, with shrieking breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While in his breast he feels the shaft of death;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He drops the bridle on his courser’s mane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before his eyes in shadows swims the plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He, the first-born of great Amphion’s bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was struck the first, first mingled with the dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Then didst thou, Sipylus, the language hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of fate portentous whistling in the air:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As when th’ impending storm the sailor sees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He spreads his canvas to the fav’ring breeze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So to thine horse thou gav’st the golden reins,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gav’st him to rush impetuous o’er the plains:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ah! a fatal shaft from Phoebus’ hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smites thro’ thy neck, and sinks thee on the sand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Two other brothers were at wrestling found,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in their pastime claspt each other round:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A shaft that instant from Apollo’s hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Transfixt them both, and stretcht them on the sand:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Together they their cruel fate bemoan’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Together languish’d, and together groan’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Together too th’ unbodied spirits fled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sought the gloomy mansions of the dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Alphenor saw, and trembling at the view,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beat his torn breast, that chang’d its snowy hue.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He flies to raise them in a kind embrace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A brother’s fondness triumphs in his face:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alphenor fails in this fraternal deed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A dart dispatch’d him (so the fates decreed:)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon as the arrow left the deadly wound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His issuing entrails smoak’d upon the ground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">What woes on blooming Damasichon wait!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His sighs portend his near impending fate.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just where the well-made leg begins to be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the soft sinews form the supple knee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The youth sore wounded by the Delian god</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Attempts t’ extract the crime-avenging rod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, whilst he strives the will of fate t’ avert,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Divine Apollo sends a second dart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swift thro’ his throat the feather’d mischief flies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bereft of sense, he drops his head, and dies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Young Ilioneus, the last, directs his pray’r,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cries, “My life, ye gods celestial! spare.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Apollo heard, and pity touch’d his heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ah! too late, for he had sent the dart:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou too, O Ilioneus, are doom’d to fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fates refuse that arrow to recal.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">On the swift wings of ever flying Fame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Cadmus’ palace soon the tidings came:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Niobe heard, and with indignant eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She thus express’d her anger and surprise:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Why is such privilege to them allow’d?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Why thus insulted by the Delian god?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Dwells there such mischief in the pow’rs above?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Why sleeps the vengeance of immortal Jove?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For now Amphion too, with grief oppress’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had plung’d the deadly dagger in his breast.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Niobe now, less haughty than before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With lofty head directs her steps no more.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She, who late told her pedigree divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And drove the Thebans from Latona’s shrine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How strangely chang’d!⁠—yet beautiful in woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She weeps, nor weeps unpity’d by the foe.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On each pale corse the wretched mother spread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay overwhelm’d with grief, and kiss’d her dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then rais’d her arms, and thus, in accents slow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Be sated cruel Goddess! with my woe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“If I’ve offended, let these streaming eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And let this sev’nfold funeral suffice:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Ah! take this wretched life you deign’d to save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“With them I too am carried to the grave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Rejoice triumphant, my victorious foe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“But show the cause from whence your triumphs flow?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Tho’ I unhappy mourn these children slain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Yet greater numbers to my lot remain.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She ceas’d, the bow string twang’d with awful sound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which struck with terror all th’ assembly round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Except the queen, who stood unmov’d alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By her distresses more presumptuous grown.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Near the pale corses stood their sisters fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In sable vestures and dishevell’d hair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One, while she draws the fatal shaft away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Faints, falls, and sickens at the light of day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sooth her mother, lo! another flies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And blames the fury of inclement skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, while her words a filial pity show,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Struck dumb⁠—indignant seeks the shades below.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now from the fatal place another flies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Falls in her flight, and languishes, and dies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Another on her sister drops in death;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fifth in trembling terrors yields her breath;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the sixth seeks some gloomy cave in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Struck with the rest, and mingled with the slain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">One only daughter lives, and she the least;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The queen close clasp’d the daughter to her breast:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Ye heav’nly pow’rs, ah spare me one,” she cry’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Ah! spare me one,” the vocal hills reply’d:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In vain she begs, the Fates her suit deny,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In her embrace she sees her daughter die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1"><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-4" id="noteref-4" epub:type="noteref">4</a> “The queen of all her family bereft,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Without or husband, son, or daughter left,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Grew stupid at the shock. The passing air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Made no impression on her stiff’ning hair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The blood forsook her face: amidst the flood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Pour’d from her cheeks, quite fix’d her eye-balls stood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Her tongue, her palate both obdurate grew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Her curdled veins no longer motion knew;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The use of neck, and arms, and feet was gone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“And ev’n her bowels hard’ned into stone:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“A marble statue now the queen appears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“But from the marble steal the silent tears.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-s-m-a-young-african-painter-on-seeing-his-works" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To <abbr class="name">S. M.</abbr> A Young African Painter, on Seeing His Works</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To show the lab’ring bosom’s deep intent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thought in living characters to paint,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When first thy pencil did those beauties give,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And breathing figures learnt from thee to live,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How did those prospects give my soul delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A new creation rushing on my sight?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still, wond’rous youth! each noble path pursue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On deathless glories fix thine ardent view:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still may the painter’s and the poet’s fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To aid thy pencil, and thy verse conspire!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And may the charms of each seraphic theme</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Conduct thy footsteps to immortal fame!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High to the blissful wonders of the skies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Elate thy soul, and raise thy wishful eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thrice happy, when exalted to survey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That splendid city, crown’d with endless day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose twice six gates on radiant hinges ring:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Celestial Salem blooms in endless spring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Calm and serene thy moments glide along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And may the muse inspire each future song!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still, with the sweets of contemplation bless’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May peace with balmy wings your soul invest!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when these shades of time are chas’d away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And darkness ends in everlasting day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On what seraphic pinions shall we move,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And view the landscapes in the realms above?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There shall thy tongue in heav’nly murmurs flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there my muse with heav’nly transport glow:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more to tell of Damon’s tender sighs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or rising radiance of Aurora’s eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For nobler themes demand a nobler strain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And purer language on th’ ethereal plain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cease, gentle muse! the solemn gloom of night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now seals the fair creation from my sight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-his-honour-the-lieutenant-governor-on-the-death-of-his-lady-march-24-1773" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To His Honour the Lieutenant-Governor, on the Death of His Lady. March 24, 1773</h2>
			<p>
				<span>All-Conquering Death! by thy resistless pow’r,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hope’s tow’ring plumage falls to rise no more!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of scenes terrestrial how the glories fly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forget their splendors, and submit to die!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who ere escap’d thee, but the saint<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-5" id="noteref-5" epub:type="noteref">5</a> of old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beyond the flood in sacred annals told,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the great sage,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-6" id="noteref-6" epub:type="noteref">6</a> whom fiery coursers drew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To heav’n’s bright portals from Elisha’s view;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wond’ring he gaz’d at the refulgent car,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then snatch’d the mantle floating on the air.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Death these only could exemption boast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And without dying gain’d th’ immortal coast.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not falling millions sate the tyrant’s mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor can the victor’s progress be confin’d.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But cease thy strife with Death, fond Nature, cease:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He leads the virtuous to the realms of peace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His to conduct to the immortal plains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where heav’n’s Supreme in bliss and glory reigns.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">There sits, illustrious Sir, thy beauteous spouse;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A gem-blaz’d circle beaming on her brows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hail’d with acclaim among the heav’nly choirs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her soul new-kindling with seraphic fires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To notes divine she tunes the vocal strings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While heav’n’s high concave with the music rings.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Virtue’s rewards can mortal pencil paint?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No⁠—all descriptive arts, and eloquence are faint;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor canst thou, Oliver, assent refuse</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To heav’nly tidings from the Afric muse.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">As soon may change thy laws, eternal fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the saint miss the glories I relate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or her Benevolence forgotten lie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which wip’d the trick’ling tear from Mis’ry’s eye.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whene’er the adverse winds were known to blow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When loss to loss<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-7" id="noteref-7" epub:type="noteref">7</a> ensu’d, and woe to woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Calm and serene beneath her father’s hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She sat resign’d to the divine command.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">No longer then, great Sir, her death deplore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let us hear the mournful sigh no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Restrain the sorrow streaming from thine eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be all thy future moments crown’d with joy!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor let thy wishes be to earth confin’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soaring high pursue th’ unbodied mind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgive the muse, forgive th’ advent’rous lays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That fain thy soul to heav’nly scenes would raise.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Farewel to America. To <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> <abbr class="name">S. W.</abbr></h2>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-1">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Adieu, New-England’s smiling meads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Adieu, the flow’ry plain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I leave thine op’ning charms, O spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And tempt the roaring main.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-2">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In vain for me the flow’rets rise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And boast their gaudy pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While here beneath the northern skies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I mourn for health deny’d.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-3">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Celestial maid of rosy hue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">O let me feel thy reign!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I languish till thy face I view,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Thy vanish’d joys regain.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-4">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Susanna mourns, nor can I bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To see the crystal show’r,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or mark the tender falling tear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">At sad departure’s hour;</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-5">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Not unregarding can I see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Her soul with grief opprest:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But let no sighs, no groans for me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Steal from her pensive breast.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-6">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In vain the feather’d warblers sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In vain the garden blooms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on the bosom of the spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Breathes out her sweet perfumes,</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-7">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>While for Britannia’s distant shore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">We sweep the liquid plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with astonish’d eyes explore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The wide-extended main.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-8">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! Health appears! celestial dame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Complacent and serene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Hebe’s mantle o’er her Frame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With soul-delighting mein.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-9">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To mark the vale where London lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With misty vapours crown’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which cloud Aurora’s thousand dyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And veil her charms around,</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-10">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">X</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Why, Phoebus, moves thy car so slow?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So slow thy rising ray?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give us the famous town to view,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou glorious king of day!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-11">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>For thee, Britannia, I resign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">New-England’s smiling fields;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To view again her charms divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What joy the prospect yields!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-12">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>But thou! Temptation hence away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With all thy fatal train</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor once seduce my soul away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By thine enchanting strain.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-farewel-to-america-to-mrs-s-w-13">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Thrice happy they, whose heav’nly shield</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Secures their souls from harms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fell Temptation on the field</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of all its pow’r disarms!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Boston, <time datetime="1773-5-7">May 7, 1773</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="a-rebus-by-i-b" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Rebus, by <abbr class="name">I. B.</abbr></h2>
			<section id="a-rebus-by-i-b-1">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A bird delicious to the taste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On which an army once did feast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sent by an hand unseen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A creature of the horned race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which Britain’s royal standards grace;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A gem of vivid green;</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-rebus-by-i-b-2">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A town of gaiety and sport,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where beaux and beauteous nymphs resort,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gallantry doth reign;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Dardan hero fam’d of old</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For youth and beauty, as we’re told,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And by a monarch slain;</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-rebus-by-i-b-3">
				<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A peer of popular applause,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who doth our violated laws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And grievances proclaim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Th’ initials show a vanquish’d town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That adds fresh glory and renown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To old Britannia’s fame.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="an-answer-to-the-rebus-by-the-author-of-these-poems" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Answer to the Rebus, by the Author of These Poems</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The poet asks, and Phillis can’t refuse</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To show th’ obedience of the Infant muse.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She knows the Quail of most inviting taste</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fed Israel’s army in the dreary waste;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And what’s on Britain’s royal standard borne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the tall, graceful, rampant Unicorn?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Emerald with a vivid verdure glows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among the gems which regal crowns compose;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Boston’s a town, polite and debonair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To which the beaux and beauteous nymphs repair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each Helen strikes the mind with sweet surprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While living lightning flashes from her eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See young Euphorbus of the Dardan line</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By Manelaus’ hand to death resign:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The well known peer of popular applause</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is C⁠⸺⁠m zealous to support our laws.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Quebec now vanquish’d must obey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She too much annual tribute pay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To Britain of immortal fame.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And add new glory to her name.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
